Our group used a Linear Discriminant Analysis model on the dataset called "BreastCancer.csv". Here we are constructing a linear fit model called lda.fit based on if the patient has a PR status or not by using two variables tumor and nodes as the classes, and when the patient is younger than age of 55. PR status means that the patient has breast cancer that is progesterone-rceptor-positve. Running lda.fit, we can understand the coefficients of tumor and node, which are 0.5116279 and 0.4883721. Then we created a bar plot of true and false for the lda.fit.

After creating the linear fit model, we created a subset of the data called BreastCancerDF.55 when the patient is older than the age of 55, and this will predict the ages above 55 if they are either true or false of PR status, and this will be called lda.pred. Then we tested the model by comparing the 2 the lda.fit and BreastCancer. Then we created a data.frame of the lda.pred that allows us to see the posteriors of both false, true and the predicted LD1.

Next, we created a histogram of the predicted LD1 values in the predicted ages above 55. When LD1 is huge, the PR status is true, and when LD1 is low, the PR status is false. We also created a boxplot that creates a threshold, when above the threshold, the PR status is true, and when the threshold is low, the PR status is false. Some interesting thing to point out is the outlier for the lower threshold.

Finally, our group calculated the confusion matrix that calculates the cross-tabulation of the observed and predicted classes, and mean what we predicted correct. From the confusion matrix, the top is the predicted, and the left side are the observed. From the output, we found there were a total of 57 predictions, where we predicted 32 have PS status, and 25 do not have PS status. However, in reality, only 21 had PR status, while 36 did not have PR status. The mean came out to be 0.4561404, which means our group was not that accurate.

From the data we received through the linear discriminant analysis, we can see that there is somewhat a linear combination between the tumor and node. This allows us to agree that PS status may be affect from the number of tumors and nodes.